So as we go about compressing
source signals willy nilly,
if we understand the price to be paid and
the trade offs that are involved,
we get to pick the right tool for
the right job.
So I want to spend a couple of minutes
here to get you acquainted with us.
The foremost is
the compression efficiency and
at what quality,
because these two are not always linear
depending on the compression
technique that you use.
The real trade off is bandwidth
that you need [COUGH] versus
the quality of the signal that
needs to be rendered, and
this is heavily,
heavily dependent on your application.
For real time communication like y,
you want very,
very low latency,
typically ten to 30 milliseconds.
And don't forget that the rest of
the communication link acts as much as
100 to 200 milliseconds latency
depending on the link quality,
congestion, number of hubs, etcetera.
So for wireless communications,
real time communications, 100 milliseconds
is about the border, after that
you're really asking for trouble.
And around 200 milliseconds you will
find huge silences on the line,
and then both of you start speaking
at the same time because we are not
really used to turn taking with so
much long latency.
And next to the algorithm latency, the
error resiliency is very, very important.
All channels,
especially wireless, have losses,
and when the data is heavily compressed,
every bit that
is remaining is so much more valuable,
so error resiliency
is very important if you want to be
able to recover from the errors.
For some signals, like for voice,
you can do pretty nifty things like
Peter's Pictel Packet Loss Concealment
if you know the signal before and
the signal after, you can interpolate and
do a good job for
one to two frames of lost packets.
The computational complexity used to be
a really big criteria a few years ago,
but given the advances in silicon
technology and the DSPs that you find
in most mobile platforms, including
Snapdragon, I think this is a wash.
Still, if you have Apache powered sensor
and are doing a lot of processing,
you do need to pay attention,
but probably not for wide calls.